https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piotroski_F-Score

Piotroski F-Score is a number between 0-9 which is used to assess strength of company’s financial position. The Score is used by financial investors in order to find the best value stocks (nine being the best). The Score is named after Stanford Accounting Professor, Joseph Piotroski.

Joseph D. Piotroski is an American Professor of Accounting at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business and a Senior Fellow at the Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER). Professor Piotroski was the inaugural Center for Global Business and the Economy Research Fellow at the Stanford GSB. Prior to joining the faculty at Stanford in 2007, Professor Piotroski was an Associate Professor of Accounting at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business (1999 - 2007). [1]

Professor Piotroski specializes in accounting and financial reporting issues, and is known in the investing world for an influential 2000 paper he wrote while at the University of Chicago, entitled Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers. In the piece, Piotroski laid out a way (Piotroski F-Score) to buy and short stocks using several accounting-based criteria. His back-testing showed that the method would have produced returns well above the broader market averages over a two-decade period. [2]

Piotroski received widespread publicity within the investment community for his 2000 paper, Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers, which appeared in the Journal of Accounting Research (Vol. 38, Supplement: Studies on Accounting Information and the Economics of the Firm).

- Profitability
1) Return on Assets (1 point if it is positive in the current year, 0 otherwise);
2) Operating Cash Flow (1 point if it is positive in the current year, 0 otherwise);
3) Change in Return of Assets (ROA) (1 point if ROA is higher in the current year compared to the previous one, 0 otherwise);
4) Accruals (1 point if Operating Cash Flow/Total Assets is higher than ROA in the current year, 0 otherwise);
- Leverage, Liquidity and Source of Funds
5) Change in Leverage (long-term) ratio (1 point if the ratio is lower this year compared to the previous one, 0 otherwise);
6) Change in Current ratio (1 point if it is higher in the current year compared to the previous one, 0 otherwise);
7) Change in the number of shares (1 point if no new shares were issued during the last year);
- Operating Efficiency
8) Change in Gross Margin (1 point if it is higher in the current year compared to the previous one, 0 otherwise);
9) Change in Asset Turnover ratio (1 point if it is higher in the current year compared to the previous one, 0 otherwise);


https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/piotroski-score.asp

- Profitability Criteria:
) Positive Net Income (1 point)
1) Positive return on assets in the current year (1 point)
2) Positive operating cash flow in the current year (1 point)
) Cash flow from operations being greater than net Income (quality of earnings) (1 point)
- Leverage, Liquidity and Source of Funds Criteria:
5) Lower ratio of long term debt in the current period, compared to the previous year (decreased leverage) (1 point)
6) Higher current ratio this year compared to the previous year (more liquidity) (1 point)
7) No new shares were issued in the last year (lack of dilution) (1 point).
- Operating Efficiency Criteria:
8) A higher gross margin compared to the previous year (1 point)
9) A higher asset turnover ratio compared to the previous year (1 point)

(A única diferença entre wikipedia e investopédia é )

- FONTE: arquivos

Success Formula High F-Score
Piotroski’s High F-Score investment strategy states that eight or nine criteria must be met in order to purchase.
MktCapM is >= US$ 300 million (basis year 2000) adjusted yearly

A. Profitability
1. Return on Asset (ROA%) for latest FY is > 0 = Score 1
2. Operating Cash Flow for latest FY is > Operating Cash Flow from 1 year ago ( FY-1) = Score 1
3. Return on Assets (ROA%) for latest FY is > FY prior = Score 1
4. Operating Cash Flow for latest FY is > Net Income (before extraordinary items) for latest FY = Score 1

B. Leverage, liquidity and source of funds
5. Long-term Debt to asset growth over 1 year is < 0 = Score 1
6. Current Ratio growth over 1 year is > 0 = Score 1
7. No New Shares Issues in the preceding FY = Score 1

C. Operating efficiency
8. Gross Margin growth over 1 year is > 0 = Score 1
9. Asset Turnover growth over 1 year is > 0 = Score 1