- https://www.sunoresearch.com.br/artigos/enterprise-value-valor-da-firma/


O TEV indica, basicamente, qual seria o custo que alguém teria que arcar para adquirir a empresa inteira.
Ou seja: ele é a soma do patrimônio líquido da empresa com seu endividamento líquido (a diferença entre a dívida total e o dinheiro em caixa).

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_value
Enterprise value (EV), total enterprise value (TEV), or firm value (FV) is an economic measure reflecting the market value of a business (i.e. as distinct from market price). It is a sum of claims by all claimants: creditors (secured and unsecured) and shareholders (preferred and common).
Enterprise value is more comprehensive than market capitalization, which only reflects common equity.
Enterprise value =
	common equity at market value (this line item is also known as "market cap")
	+ debt at market value (here debt refers to interest-bearing liabilities, both long-term and short-term)
	+ minority interest at market value, if any
	+ preferred equity at market value
	+ unfunded pension liabilities and other debt-deemed provisions
	– value of associate companies
	– cash and cash equivalents.
Because EV is a capital structure-neutral metric, it is useful when comparing companies with diverse capital structures. Price/earnings ratios, for example, will be significantly more volatile in companies that are highly leveraged.
Stock market investors use EV/EBITDA to compare returns between equivalent companies on a risk-adjusted basis. They can then superimpose their own choice of debt levels. In practice, equity investors may have difficulty accurately assessing EV if they do not have access to the market quotations of the company debt. It is not sufficient to substitute the book value of the debt because a) the market interest rates may have changed, and b) the market's perception of the risk of the loan may have changed since the debt was issued. Remember, the point of EV is to neutralize the different risks, and costs of different capital structures.

O equity seria quanto custaria pra comprar a empresa com a dívida, enquanto o enterprise value seria comprar toda empresa e saldar suas dívidas.
Também conhecido como valor do empreendimento, pode-se dizer que o Entreprise Value mostra quanto custaria para comprar a companhia e todos os seus ativos, descontado o caixa e saldando suas dívidas.

Do livro do Greenblat
Enterprise Value = 
	Market Value of Equity (valor_mercado.xlxs)
	+ net interest-bearing debt